I can do it if you need what recorded
locally no like a simple later okay
welcome to the November 11th all hands
you're not sorry core implementation
speak the sink is confused I guess we
can start right off
we have release process Allen sure I've
got news that Jays ipfs 0:40 has between
the rc4 0:40 has just been released as
it's my first go on the new release
process and it's reassuring to know that
things are working really well and and
saving me a whole bunch of time all of
the tests for the examples and all of
the repos that are our early testers
have the use ipfs they're all being all
of the tests for those those things are
being run by CI automatically so I don't
have to do that anymore and that was
previously a very time-consuming task so
it's super good news but yeah 0:40 is
out now it has a few things in it
there's a new repo repaint migration
tool it doesn't do anything just yet but
it's there and it means that in the
future we can do things like migrate
between versions of the repo when we
decide that the format is going to
change for whatever reason and we'll
need to do that at some point soon and
for our CID v1 migration so that is that
it's good news with us in there and
ready to go we have support for peer IDs
encoded as base 52 in IP NS so you can
now ask IP NS to resolve a period
basically two encoded CID EP a peer ID
and it will be able to resolve it for
you which is super cool this isn't the
full CID v1 version with a Lib p2p key
codec this is literally just an old
style
peer ID encode re-encoded as
as a CID and and encoded using base
photo - but yeah that's that's there
that's good what else is that there is a
new version of web UI in there and there
is a couple of the CLI commands that
were missing for the dag API that are
now there so if you're interested in
that go and check out the issue that I
linked in the notes thank you sorry I'm
just desperately trying to finish up the
notes for okay so we had a testing
infraspecific test ground a hack week
last week got a bunch of stuff done I
progress but we're not quite where we
hope to be so the correct status is that
we can now run a hundred to two hundred
baby nodes on AWS instance we can spin
it like many of these APIs it's in salt
once have them all like specialize and
figure out which parts the tested should
be running
connect to each other and then the parts
the tests and report there was and ship
the results back off to I think
currently we were using classic search
the missing components now are quite a
few of them we're still working on
getting like network simulation stuff
working so latency tuning Bama tuning IP
assignment fake Nats that kind of stuff
maybe like dropping packets this isn't
particularly tricky it's just well some
tricky ideas but you know basic kind of
do this mixed networks there's a good
vest with JSF es or different versions
different things like this we haven't
quite started on this yet we're not
entirely sure the right way to do this
the current thinking is maybe just like
this my current thinking is you should
be deploying images that have everything
and then like at runtime we just figure
out which we want to run the problem
years like many this is very using don't
let you like configure individual
machines instead they say well you can
you basically say spin up X number of
this in the nervous of a node it'll do
it so another way to do this mixed
instance is just like this
multiple swarms this is the terminology
docker she's been at multiple swarms and
then connect them together but we
haven't quite figured out we also don't
have like one-click runs of AWS so you
can write up locally easily but it
darker locally easily on AWS it still
means like setting database can't figure
out how to do all the chem stuff and
that could be Victor Kiefer
so that's still working progress I think
I'm not sure
the end goal this is the next item there
kind of integration so we would like to
be able to just make this like you just
submitted the art you like call out to
some bot and the bot and runs this test
on Amazon we actually think that we
should build run media or midscale tests
this way without cost too much money
because like if we just spin up these
nodes on demand run the test with who
could shut them down like they cost like
like really our experience is like
it will costs almost like a buck per
physical machine if we in the each
fiscal cheek and that we think around
hundred two hundred nodes although we're
testing with under two hundred knows we
were getting a bunch of other crashes so
we're going to have fifty about like I
should be affordable next dashboard
Jim's correctly working on that tried to
make it smooth country infuse the
results in some nice
using integrated way we've been going
back and forth on the right approach
this but progress improve literally
tracing this is something it's kind of
critical we've realized we're like we
can display it like certain results but
we can't like dig down into like what is
actually doing so like we can spend a
timing result so you could say like oh
this like this change improve some of
this change didn't reverse link really
we really nice be able to exact time you
like this little piece here is what took
a lot of time this is like this event
here got stuck but we don't currently
have this and I don't think anyone was
working on this I think I do not enjoy
her role was introduced I think who's
trying to find someone to take
so that's the current status of testing
infra tied in with this is the good fest
release process but of course that's
blocked on this so status update is good
this will probably not have a release
before lab week or so a nursing for that
week but it will have a release before
the end of the year regardless what
happens and I'm hoping to find a time at
lab wait to get a bunch of people
together to final push like writing
tests protesting from and actually using
it so make that happened it needs
actually usable by a Thrall that Deb's
like not just in laptops right now you
can totally use drops it would work
great but like actually like usable on
the network so yeah that is the testing
update which my testing update don't see
anyone else here who was just weak so
with respect to I think you said there
that you can spin up a whole bunch of
instances on one AWS machine is alright
rather than yes start rather than using
separate AWS machines yes okay and and
is that how we're sort of like I'm just
wondering if we're gonna have any tests
that I are gonna be like really
simulating what might happen in the
network you have literally multiple
machines I so the thing is with Amazon
like unless we actually have like real
machines we're not really gonna have
that so like the system is supposed to
be flexible enough that I mean ideally
we could if you want to go out and buy a
bunch of enterprise it just make it
happen but even it like basically comes
out to cost we're like even if we can
ask like even if they use separately
this is Amazon Amazon so it's gonna give
us different VMs so they're not really
going to different machines do we were
plenty of some of this is using TC and
sending we can see roles so basically
all packets will think you mister wait
and see what habit was setting network
bandwidth
like drop rates all that kind of stuff
so we think it should be as close as we
can get it even if we had thrown stuff
machines so wouldn't they would so
quality within the same data center so
changes yeah the ideal solution would be
to just set up a massive farm
perhaps revise all across the country
like the next episodic well if you just
that could be that it would be really
awesome to be able to just like ship
raspberry pies to contribute and say hey
could you just set this up on your
network connected to your router and
just like let us like test like this
global internet testing system that
would be awesome
but they're really good idea yeah can we
do that ourselves to start with yes no
like I think right now we're gonna focus
on making this just work initially
things like wit bit worthy says but yes
being able to just like set that up
deploy we definitely need very good doc
caching we're gonna do this we don't
just like destroy people's bandwidth by
like constantly on the new images but
yeah if we could just ship people
raspberry PI's that we have access to
that would actually I have a whole box
of raspberry pies the could definitely
run some tests this is future stuff I'd
like for now we just wanna make that it
works as you can see from these every
one other question there um when you say
mix networks IP f s+ j SI p FS versions
etc does that include like versions of
dependent libraries like this one yes
yeah basically want to be able to play
multiple versions of nodes for like they
have different configurations at the
moment like every node is the same and
like you just special is it runtime but
like most languages don't let you import
multiple copies of the same library
unless they're like different major
versions easily do that yeah so again
the current thinking here is like oh
basically a few options we could either
deploy multiple images or one image with
everything as specialist runtime now
there are trade-offs
like the way we're just rated it's
better technical integration the way
we're communicating this machine using
Redis so basically everyone writes to
Redis and then everyone's subscribe to
read us the problems like if we end up
starting a new process that means like
both these processes need to thread this
and need to coordinate and then it just
gets slightly trickier it's not that bad
okay yeah but I've got it yeah sorry we
don't have them this is a fear but yes
just so just a quick clarification the
the go ipfs 0.5 release is hopefully to
be expected by the end of the year for
things go to plan which means that the
test ground should be getting ready or
ready enough to be able to test things
to an adequate level that we're okay to
release zero fine and so what does that
mean for zero for twenty three twenty
two the next twenty three yeah so I put
on this but we've talked about a zero
point four point twenty three I
currently decided to pump that unless
someone like really desperately needs it
and it's it is missing there's a couple
issues that I'd like to fix but it's not
like a burning fire like actually fixing
the DHT and cutting at least just takes
time even if it's just natural ease so
yeah the plan is just gonna for 0.50 and
making out he terms like what would be
included in 45.0 that really depends on
what's ready when we were trying to
shoot for that week the goal was the DHD
because that's what we think that's the
minimum has to be in a release if we end
up missing what week and hopefully we
can change us but again trans as the
Rizal was tested minimum fix DHT
okay and also there will definitely be
released for the end of the year
guarantee that we will provoke a some to
start dropping more more things that
there's not if it's not coming cancel
Christmas
okay I subdomain gateway okay lie does
not hit okay distributed signaling on
hold i p NS Hadean okay yeah so i can
swear pub/sub it's this is mostly like
bubbling things up and dealing with all
the conflicts that show up since pub set
this up unsub changes to basically
landed now so yeah one of them is ready
for review which is just like removing
all the old crufty food strapping code
because now we have new snazzy stuff
they're breaking API changes no one
should care there's been a forum post on
discussed outlet pita Pio saying this is
gonna happen since June no one has said
anything other than thumbs up so should
be fine
putting this into go IP of us is the
next thing I had not had much experience
with char NIST tests and making sure
that I deal with all of our fun new
dependency injection stuff so getting
some review to make sure I've done that
right would be great and then I've got
to do some writing test ground tests for
IPS things which also looks a lot like
DHT put and get so yeah I'm gonna have
to talk with the test run team about how
to do that and and what comes next
any questions otherwise I'll continue
because I'm the next one also
alright performance people seem to be on
board with asynchronous data stores so
that's good
this
potentially as easy as just flipping a
flag but we don't mean to know what's
going to break if we just flip a flag
and switch all of our data stores from
synchronous to asynchronous we know
nothing will break on windows more than
is already broken because Windows is
using asynchronous data stores all the
time we just didn't realize it so yeah I
could go and look through everywhere
that leaves a data store in our code
base but if people who already know the
answer to this could help me that would
be great
2:13 I think you have to do that anyways
I think you should just like download
everything do a grep find all the uses
check to see if we really care about it
and then if we do put the sink in there
like this this will be a big thing but I
would just go for it make it happen ok
sure
I mean I don't yeah all right I guess
I'll just I'll just do it I'm going to
assume though that like most of these
things that don't actually store the
only things that we stored that our
persistent are like blocks
yeah these on a block or an IP NS record
then we don't care if it goes away
mostly yeah so just do the search
interview like I can check out that you
can check your work make sure we got the
right things like actually a wonderful
way of doing this like you create an
issue there's audio uses of like the
datastore and like says doesn't use ink
does not do you think you just check
everything off that it'll check the same
thing so I think what quickly oh sure
that'd be great yeah and then the last
thing is that because switching to
asynchronous data stores is either a use
badger instead of flat FS or make your
badger use a different flag we should
consider whether the upgrade path is
telling people who have badger already
installed to change a flag or to fix our
config files I think we need to fix the
config files as we talk to it before we
don't want to get into it now
but for now like look badger is still
technically experimental there's no
reason we can't just tell people
if you are hurting from this performance
issue switch otherwise you find but most
users don't like it kind of hurts but it
like honestly the performance is not
terrible congratulating Justin tons of
data that really care and they will
listen heaven able change this so cool
thank you for taking this on this is
awesome this is very exciting my great
keys herbal tea house sorry not this is
not keys or this is multinational
masters okay I can talk to this the yeah
migration said Monty ash keys in books
or the movie migration tool has been
merged in is in 0:40 I am currently
reviewing a migration to to to change
the repose keys from CDs Tamati ashes so
that's the current states on that
you mediate even your meter I assume
you're telling me to stop talking about
this walk
yeah that's not good
did you was this I mean you said that
you want us to know
so yeah I've implemented a test ground
plan for bid swap which is multiple seed
multiple each scenario and so when I say
implemented I mean that it works on my
local machine so we still need to you
know make sure it works in the clouds
and then I'm gonna start looking at how
we're gonna actually visualize what's
coming out of that meaning is it passing
the tests I need to add a couple of
extra things into that test ground plan
one is going to be being able to stagger
when we make requests so if there's
multiple leeches then I don't know stat
at the same time um and I'm gonna be so
I'm gonna be hearing here today it's
Maura and then from Wednesday to Friday
I'll be in Nicaragua so I'll be taking
that time off some people know then I'll
be in Costa Rica holidays any questions
okay it's what is it what your factory
yeah chase left EP we finished the
identify refactor is done that also
includes new support for identified push
nsj surrogate relay reef actors in
progress should be done this week we
refactored the pier store and also added
a registrar that we're gonna be using
for connection management pub/sub flood
sub and gossip such should hopefully be
finished this week because we finished
blockers for those psychiatry factors
mostly done um I need to review it and I
think there might be a couple small
blockers that new quirk mkg did a some
local benchmarks
there's a link to those and that showed
a pretty significant performance
improvement over callbacks so hopefully
we should get some boost in performance
for a jeaious through that so that is it
for lipid P hooray okay I can talk to
the GSI BFS HTTP API I found a little
bit of time to do the async/await
refactor in the HTTP API for bit swap
and that was read emerged and then ed
rate would you like to talk about what
you've been up to yeah sure so the
refactor was finally burst and the next
the next thing is to merge the interface
core that is being we already have a
pure and is being reviewed review it so
we are almost there
any question
people on the async/await stuff we will
looking really good for finishing off
this work
this quarter there's only a few things
that are left that are in flight the p2p
is almost done
and there's a bunch of things so gonna
hopefully land this week ipfs is coming
down to just the HTTP client and ipfs
and largely ipfs has already been done
so yeah this whole thing can finish at
some point soon and we can start to
realize some of the benefits so that's
good news okay
design okay so this is last week I
didn't have time for it last week I sped
up on Tuesday warning for me evening for
everyone else in Europe this is the
second design of view on unix best 4.5
but we've started screamin on things so
we should like talk about this and just
like now that we actually have like the
spec rosa there we can heard about last
year things that hopefully is emerge the
spec proposal live it's beating or make
up its live oh let's see but like this
is something already seen it like you
know pull the trigger make it happen
figure out any last like things so yeah
please come if you're available
hopefully they don't work so it doesn't
you really wanna comment please tell me
okay
blockers asks anything it's not the
student nope okay question this yes I
don't know this is maybe maybe neither
of these may be neither a blocker and or
naw request or an ask nor a question but
I given that just live data P like
pub/sub stuff is is so far along now and
gossip stuff is in there is there any
interest in porting over the pub/sub
router changes as well so that the IP
nests over pub sub stuff works in JSON
or should we wait on that until it's
released in l5 OH
with teachers like adding in like the
protocol changes to do persistent
pub/sub stuff that doesn't exist in jail
and okay so IPS perhaps it still works
the same way it just the JavaScript
notes won't support this persistence it
also be a little awkward because the go
nodes will expect like if the go nodes
happen to be collected to Jas knows
they'll be really sad I yeah I see I
mean the when they tried to discovery
they likely won't connect to GSN it's
because the most in the cosmic those
were mostly things you can't actually I
would infuse this to why they might be
sad the reason the what's odd is that
they're gonna try and ask for they're
gonna try and like ask the knows that
they connect to and be like hey what's
the latest version in case I missed an
update and the j/s ones will be like I
don't understand what language you're
speaking
and the go ones will be like here's the
answer so if they happen to connect to a
Jas know if they happens to connect to
like only Jas no it's they'll be very
sad if I recall correctly we like we
asked basically everyone we're connected
to in series or something like that like
we have something basically to use or if
you I find it so like we'll be sad for a
bit until we find someone it's probably
fine it the J the girls will probably be
fine as long as there are exist other go
nodes how sad are we talking like
slightly unhappy or a crash in some form
slightly happy it'll be no worse than
currently never lies no no it won't be
there anything it'll fit really just be
like exactly we have enough basically we
won't get all the good features yeah
maybe a thing to add to any sort of pack
time backlog of cool stuff that could
happen but also doesn't sound radical
for to pull people off say like
async/await or something like that
accurate prioritization sounds good to
me
so that's nothing I'll be I have to -
almost immediately so I just wanted to
mention that we did see some very weird
behavior on the gateways on Sunday where
they've been running reliably
for weeks and then they all started
crashing on Sunday all 6 15 of the 16
nodes would crash roughly once an hour
all with the same error that's linked to
from the notes so it'd be good to get
some eyes on that so ever since before
I've looked into it we had an issue that
we closed because there would not be fix
it I have to don't check too much
versions but if you go to track it
you're not solve in there I put the
issue yeah no you do you put this you
know I just did that okay cool good to
know and just in case anyone else in the
message already the four new bootstrap
nodes are now monitored so we can
consider them production-ready so you
can also using them but your code will
be using them anyway
unless you're Jaso give s in which case
we need to figure out whether you're
going to start supporting dns adders
soon or whether we should get you some
DNS flavored multi adders for the new
restrain nodes but I can't stay any
longer
so I'm going to leave goodbye okay all
right
the foundational need to reopen it we
had someone over the weekend was lumber
slated say they saw the same error but
unfortunately I have no idea what's
actually causing this I looked into it
before I couldn't find anything I think
I tried
I think they added some small fix to fix
it and they got created the websocket
transport yeah okay Molly's got a thing
I just wanted to make a really quick PSA
that we're going we have you know a
month left in this quarter I know we
just did mid-quarter grading but it's
really a month left and we had a lot of
things that we really really care about
landing things that unblocked a ton of
other work things like the async/await
refactor things like getting o top-50 at
the door and really want to encourage
everyone to focus and think about how
they can best empower their teammates to
get these really important things across
the line and that you know it will be
tempting to find new shiny things and
start trying to push the board but let's
be really thoughtful about kind of how
we collectively spend our effort to help
land these p0s and can be thoughtful so
I like review time of other people and
like you know other non non tangible
ways that are our work picking up new
things might impact other people so
focus focus focus and let's make this an
awesome end of the quarter
okay see